So the last thing we're going to really
talk about is that you may want to
actually digitally draw
shapes on your map, okay?
So here we're going to show you
how to draw some circles and
it will be pretty obvious how you do that.
And then we'll show you how
to draw some rectangles, and
then we'll show you how to add a legend.
So these couple of commands will get you
started, and then there's obviously more.
These couple of cans will get you
started on really annotating and
kind of drawing on your
map in very useful ways.
And we're going to give you an example
of at least drawing with a circle,
in a way that you might
actually want to do.
Okay, so let's go ahead.
Okay, so this is a nice example
because it's sort of along
the lines of something you
might really want to do.
So here,
what we have is a collection of cities.
So we have the cities, their names
are Baltimore, Frederick, Rockville,
Gaithersburg, these are all
cities right around Baltimore.
Okay, and
it gives you the population here.
Okay, and it gives you the latitude and
the longitude.
So, now we're going to take our
cities dataset, we're going to
pass it to leaflet, we're going to
pass the output of that to add tiles.
Okay, now it's got our mapping data.
And then we're going to add circles.
So remember, we talked about the
addCircles command in the last lecture,
okay, but now we're going to
pass in some important options.
So, the wait, we'll show you what
happens when we change that,
but we want the radius to be scaled
relative to the population of the cities.
Okay so this is a more reasonable use of
adding circles than just having them as
the markers, okay?
So here let's go ahead and do it.
Oop, I've gotta actually run,
get the cities.
There we go.
All right, and then see here.
So we've got Baltimore is
a much larger city say than
Annapolis in terms of population, okay?
And so the size of the circle is
representative of the population.
Let's change that weight to
let's weight to let's say 10.
And that's the way to
really look at options,
is just make them much bigger, okay?
There, now you say what weight does,
it does the kind of
the outline of the circle.
Just to make it even more apparent,
let's do it to 100.
So yeah, when you're looking at options,
just make them as extreme as you can and
then that'll show you what they're doing.
So that looks terrible but
now we understand what the wake does.
There we go,
let's get it back just because it
looks way better at weight equal 1.
Okay, now,
let's just try doing a rectangle.
Just to show you what adding
a rectangle looks like.
So, we're going to take leaflet,
add tiles,
and then we're going to add a rectangle.
But this time, just to show you,
we're going to give you one rectangle.
And in this case with the rectangle
you are just giving its two corners.
So all you need for rectangle is two
opposite corners,
it can't be two corners on the same line.
Two opposite corners,
there is the rectangle, all right?
So apparently, we're rectangling
the Mountain View Corporate Center, okay?
Now, let's cover the final
thing which is adding a legend.
So it will be very common task where you
want to add circles or add annotations
like these rectangles and circles but you
want them to be have a different color.
And then you want a legend so that the
user of the map can understand what each
of the separate annotations means.
Okay, so, here we have a data
frame that's got 20 points.
And the colors are going to be red,
blue, and green.
And, so there we go.
Okay, so let's just look this data
framework, quick head data frame.
We'll do that for us.
Okay, we got a bunch of latitude and
longitude points.
In colors blue, red, green, and so on.
Okay, then we take our data frame,
we're going to pass the leaflet.
Add the mapping data.
Now we're going to add just the circle
markers, only now the only differences
we're going to have them colored by
their random color that we generated.
Now of course, when you're doing this on
your own, you're going to want your colors
to be important like this county is
going to tend to vote Democrat and
this other county's going to tend to
vote Republican or something like that.
And in that case, you of course want
the colors to not be assigned at random.
Okay, so
hopefully that point is not that hard.
So now the last thing, and the only thing
we want to talk about is adding a legend.
Okay, so
adding a legend operates a lot like
the legend command in base R plotting,
okay?
So the labels are just LETTERS[1:3] and
that's not anything in specific,
we just made up labels in this case.
So if you type letters that's
just pre-defined vector in our.
So if you type letters one to three
it just gives you a, b, c, okay?
So that we're just making up.
You would obviously want
this to be set say for
example to Democrat, Republican,
other or something like that.
Okay, and then the colors are blue.
Blue, red, and green, okay?
So let's go ahead and run this, and
then you'll see your legend right up here,
okay?
So that tells you what
the colors of your dots means.
And of course in your example you'll
have more meaningful colors and
more meaningful dots, but
now you know how to do it.
Okay, so I hope,
this was the last lecture on Leaflet.
I hope you found it useful.
Honestly, I think Leaflet is probably one
of the most useful things we'll cover in
this class.
And you can use Leaflet in conjunction
with Shiny to create some really amazing
applications.
Nonetheless, I think this is one of
the easiest interactive plotting.
Utilities that you have in our, and
certainly is worth your time to learn.
Okay, thanks, and I look forward
to seeing you in the next lab.